README.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor
# license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional
# information regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file to you
# under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the # "License"); you may not use this
# file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License
# at:
#
# http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed
# under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
# CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
# specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
#
-->

# OpenWhisk Graduate and Release Management
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-openwhisk-release.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-openwhisk-release)

This project is responsible for the Release Management of OpenWhisk projects, by automating the processes of verifying
the source code, building & deploying OpenWhisk, packaging the source code and binaries, publishing the artifacts to
the specified online directories, etc. OpenWhisk is a serverless event-based programming service and currently an Apache
Incubator project. The ultimate goal of this project is to guarantee the compliance with the Apache release requirements
for OpenWhisk projects.

We use Travis CI as the automated integration build tool to streamline the release process of OpenWhisk. Stages can be
applied to build different jobs, which are able to run either in sequential or parallel. Artifacts can be shared across
different jobs by using cache in Travis, as different jobs run on different virtual machines.

# Instruction to use OpenWhisk Release

As a release manger of OpenWhisk, please visit [OpenWhisk Release tutorial](docs/tutorial.md).

# How to release an Apache project

## Release Approval
Apache requires a minimum of three positive votes and more positive than negative votes MUST be cast, in order to release.
Release manager of OpenWhisk sends a release note to the OpenWhisk mailing for votes, and opens the mail for 72 hours.
We can create JIRA issue for this release and close it when the requirement is met and ready for release. This step can
be done manually by the release manager, beyond the scope of this project.

An example of the release note can be found at the following link: [example of release note](https://github.com/apache/cordova-coho/blob/master/docs/coho-release-process.md).

## Artifacts
We need to package the source code and the complied binaries separately. Each of them should be signed cryptographically.
The package of source code needs to provide the installation script for users to deploy a full OpenWhisk environment.
We target to implement this step in Travis build.

## Licensing
All the source code has to be compliant with Apache Licensing Policy, by adding the LICENSE file, NOTICE file to each
repository and the release package, and adding Licensing headers to each source code file.

## Release distribution
We need to upload all artifacts to project’s subdirectory in Apache channel. This step needs to be implemented in Travis build.

# Specifications to implement the above release process

To find the specifications about how to implement the Apache Release process for OpenWhisk project set, please visit the
following page.

- [General Specification](docs/general_spec.md)

# Reference
[Apache release policy](http://www.apache.org/legal/release-policy.html)

# Important Note
There can be some missing steps in the release process described above for Apache projects, which will be implemented in
future. We welcome any comments and contributions.

Commit message:

Add the link to license compliace to README page (#70)
Closes: #68

README.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more contributor
# license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with this work for additional
# information regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file to you
# under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the # "License"); you may not use this
# file except in compliance with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License
# at:
#
# http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed
# under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
# CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
# specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
#
-->

# OpenWhisk Graduate and Release Management
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-openwhisk-release.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/apache/incubator-openwhisk-release)

This project is responsible for the Release Management of OpenWhisk projects, by automating the processes of verifying
the source code, building & deploying OpenWhisk, packaging the source code and binaries, publishing the artifacts to
the specified online directories, etc. OpenWhisk is a serverless event-based programming service and currently an Apache
Incubator project. The ultimate goal of this project is to guarantee the compliance with the Apache release requirements
for OpenWhisk projects.

We use Travis CI as the automated integration build tool to streamline the release process of OpenWhisk. Stages can be
applied to build different jobs, which are able to run either in sequential or parallel. Artifacts can be shared across
different jobs by using cache in Travis, as different jobs run on different virtual machines.

# Instruction to use OpenWhisk Release

As a release manger of OpenWhisk, please visit [OpenWhisk Release tutorial](docs/tutorial.md).

# How to release an Apache project

## Release Approval
Apache requires a minimum of three positive votes and more positive than negative votes MUST be cast, in order to release.
Release manager of OpenWhisk sends a release note to the OpenWhisk mailing for votes, and opens the mail for 72 hours.
We can create JIRA issue for this release and close it when the requirement is met and ready for release. This step can
be done manually by the release manager, beyond the scope of this project.

An example of the release note can be found at the following link: [example of release note](https://github.com/apache/cordova-coho/blob/master/docs/coho-release-process.md).

## Artifacts
We need to package the source code and the complied binaries separately. Each of them should be signed cryptographically.
The package of source code needs to provide the installation script for users to deploy a full OpenWhisk environment.
We target to implement this step in Travis build.

## Licensing
All the source code has to be compliant with Apache Licensing Policy, by adding the LICENSE file, NOTICE file to each
repository and the release package, and adding Licensing headers to each source code file. Please visit [License_Compliance](docs/license_compliance.md) for detailed information.

## Release distribution
We need to upload all artifacts to project’s subdirectory in Apache channel. This step needs to be implemented in Travis build.

# Specifications to implement the above release process

To find the specifications about how to implement the Apache Release process for OpenWhisk project set, please visit the
following page.

- [General Specification](docs/general_spec.md)

# Reference
[Apache release policy](http://www.apache.org/legal/release-policy.html)

# Important Note
There can be some missing steps in the release process described above for Apache projects, which will be implemented in
future. We welcome any comments and contributions.
