docs/upload_public_key.md, before:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Upload the public PGP key

The public PGP key file is named _KEYS_ available under the [staging directory](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/openwhisk/). If you generate a new key to
sign the artifacts, you need to update the file of public key in the staging directory for further use to verify the
artifacts. Checkout the [staging directory](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/openwhisk/) via subversion,
modify the file KEYS by appending your local public key, and commit it back to the staging directory.

You can export your public PGP key by running the following command:

```
$ pgp --export <key_id>
```

The parameter <key_id> can be either the key id or the email address you used to generate the key. For detailed information
on PGP keys, please visit [how to create and manage PGP keys](https://support.symantec.com/en_US/article.HOWTO41935.html).

Commit message:

Remove the WORK_DIR to simplify the configuration
This PR removes the parameter "WORK_DIR" for each script, in order
to reduce the complexity. The openwhisk release folder will be
created under the home directory of the incubator-openwhisk-release
repository saved on the local machine.

docs/upload_public_key.md, after:

<!--
#
# Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
# contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
# this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
# The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
# (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
# the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
#
-->

# Upload the public PGP key

The public PGP key file is named _KEYS_ available under the [staging directory](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/openwhisk/). If you generate a new key to
sign the artifacts, you need to update the file of public key in the staging directory for further use to verify the
artifacts. Checkout the [staging directory](https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/incubator/openwhisk/) via subversion,
modify the file KEYS by appending your local public key, and commit it back to the staging directory. Please refer to the
[svn commands](http://svnbook.red-bean.com/en/1.7/svn.ref.html) to checkout, and commit.

You can export your public PGP key by running the following command:

```
$ pgp --export <key_id>
```

The parameter <key_id> can be either the key id or the email address you used to generate the key. For detailed information
on PGP keys, please visit [how to create and manage PGP keys](https://support.symantec.com/en_US/article.HOWTO41935.html).

## How to commit to the staging directory

Under the home directory of openwhisk release tool, you can find the local SVN directory openwhisk_release/
